Our text comments mention our dealings with unbelieving family members,
and the need for us to put our loyalty to Jehovah ahead of our love for them.
Now that raises some questions.
Why might loyalty to Jehovah over love for family be an issue?
Is there a Bible character who set an example for us in putting loyalty to Jehovah ahead of love for family?
And how can we display loyalty to Jehovah while still showing love to our unbelieving family members?
Our first question.
Why at times is loyalty to Jehovah over love for family and issue?
Well, Jesus said it would be.
Please turn with me to Matthew chapter 10.
And here Jesus explained that one effect of a person becoming a Christian would be that relatives might oppose.
Matthew chapter 10, notice verses 34 and 35.
Do not think I came to bring peace to the earth.
I came to bring not peace, but a sword.
For I came to cause division with a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
Now in saying do not think I came to bring peace, Jesus meant that some of his listeners needed to think of the consequences of becoming his follower.
Holding faithfully to his teachings would be challenging if family members would reject the truth.
And perhaps some of us have experienced that.
When we became Jehovah's Witnesses, we were opposed by our family.
Perhaps we're still being opposed.
Or they may have opposed our decisions to set and achieve spiritual goals such as pioneering or coming to Bethel.
This was true of one member of our Bethel family.
When this brother accepted the truth as a young person, he stated that his father was very disappointed in him.
His father was confused.
Since prior to studying the Bible, this brother's worldly pursuits were turning out well.
And then when our brother was invited to Bethel, he stated that his father was really puzzled and concerned.
He felt that his son was not making right choices in life.
The brother wrote this.
My dad had always been a loving and responsible father.
We lacked nothing and had his active support.
Now, I felt like I was letting him down.
As if I was turning my back on him and not showing him the appreciation that a father deserves.
This was hard for me.
The brother's feelings were real.
And it's true, we don't want to hurt our family.
It's normal to love our unbelieving family members.
So why the issue?
Because we've decided and proved by our dedication that we're going to put our loyalty to Jehovah ahead of our love for family.
And when some family members realize that, they may feel that we're rejecting them.
And that can create a division like that caused by a sword as Jesus stated here at Matthew chapter 10.
Is there a Bible character who set an example of loyalty to Jehovah over love for family?
Well, how about this individual on our monitors?
Jonathan, the son of King Saul.
Shortly after David defeated Goliath, first Samuel 18 tells us that Jonathan and David became bound together in close friendship.
They made a covenant because Jonathan loved David as himself.
So for the rest of his life, Jonathan was loyal to David, Jehovah's chosen one.
And thus, Jonathan was loyal to Jehovah.
Now, as we know in time, Jonathan's father King Saul was determined to kill David.
So Jonathan faced a conflict of loyalties.
Would he continue to put his loyalty to Jehovah ahead of his love for family?
We know he did.
But look at the division that resulted in.
Please turn with me to 1 Samuel, chapter 20.
And let's read together verses 30 through 33.
Notice the division between Jonathan and his father.
1 Samuel 20, verse 30.
Then Saul became enraged with Jonathan and said to him,
You son of a rebellious woman, do you think I do not know that you are choosing to side with the son of Jesse
to your own shame and to the shame of your mother?
As long as the son of Jesse is alive on the earth,
you and your kingship will not be firmly established.
So now send someone to bring him to me, for he must die.
However, Jonathan said to his Saul, his father,
Why should he be put to death?
What has he done?
At that Saul hurled the spirit him to strike him.
So Jonathan knew that his father was determined to put David to death.
Talk about family opposition.
A few of any of us have experienced that type of response from unbelieving relatives.
So what would Jonathan do?
Would he begin to reason that he needed to now change his priorities
and put love of family ahead of loyalty to Jehovah?
The answer is in verse 42.
Jonathan said to David,
Go in peace.
Since we have both sworn in the name of Jehovah,
saying,
May Jehovah be between you and me and between your offspring and my offspring forever.
So loyalty to God had first place in Jonathan's heart,
and he proved his loyalty to Jehovah ahead of his love for family.
Now he still supported and cooperated with his father when possible.
How do we know him?
When the Philistines were battling Israel,
1st Samuel chapter 31 verse 2 states,
the Philistines kept in close range of Saul and his sons,
and the Philistines struck down Jonathan,
Abinadab and Malkashua, Saul's sons.
So Jonathan supported his father down to the end of his life,
yet Jonathan's loyalty was with Jehovah.
What an outstanding example for those of us with unbelieving family members.
We still love them, we still support them as we're able,
but we put our loyalty to Jehovah ahead of our love for them.
Now how can we display Jonathan like loyalty to Jehovah
and still show love for our unbelieving family members?
That's our third question.
What we can let Bible principles guide us.
Here are five principles that can help,
four of which appeared in the Watchtower article
that our comments are taken from.
Point one, if conflicts arise with unbelieving family members,
try to reason with them in a loving way.
Earlier we read 1st Samuel 2032,
where Jonathan tried to reason with Saul about David.
Remember the questions he asked?
Why should he be put to death?
What has he done?
Of course, reasoning may not always work as it didn't with Saul,
but it doesn't mean we shouldn't try.
Point two, have empathy for unbelieving relatives.
Try to see things from their viewpoint
and listen carefully to understand their concerns.
Proverbs 20 verse five states,
the thoughts of a man's heart are like deep waters,
but the discerning man draws them out.
Point three, speak with mildness.
We can ask Jehovah for his Holy Spirit to display its fruitage
when speaking with our relatives.
If they hurt us by their speech or actions,
we can do his 1st Corinthians chapter four
verses 12 and 13 states.
When insulted, we bless.
When persecuted, we patiently endure.
When slandered, we answer mildly.
Point four, maintain fine conduct.
Although mild speech is helpful in dealing with opposing relatives,
our good conduct can speak even louder.
For speeder 316 states maintain a good conscience
so that in whatever way you are spoken against,
those who speak against you may be put to shame
because of your good conduct as followers of Christ.
And point five, plan ahead.
Proverbs 22, three,
the shrewd one sees the danger and conceals himself.
Now, not that we should conceal ourselves from our unbelieving relatives,
but rather when visiting them, think of situations or topics
that might lead to conflict
and determine how to handle them ahead of time.
So those are five Bible principles
that can help us to display love to our unbelieving relatives
and still prove our loyalty to Jehovah.
How did things work out for the Bethelite we mentioned earlier?
His father stated,
My son's determination and seriousness was convincing
and helped me to appreciate that he was serious about his decision
to serve Jehovah.
Later, when I visited Bethel,
I was thoroughly impressed with the cleanliness and organization.
I was convinced that he made the right decision.
The son concludes,
My dad is now serving Jehovah.
He is a regular pioneer with my mom
and we serve on the same body of elders.
As was the case with this brother and Jonathan the son of Saul,
let's continue to put our loyalty to Jehovah
ahead of our love for family.